Introduction ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


22 Sekunden

Hello everyone. My name is Maik Thanh Nguyen and I am currently a master's student at the technische
universität of dresden. In this talk, I would like to give some results on the modal logic of full
products of neighborhood frames. Before that, I would Like to give you some 
motivation and explain where the problems we study comes from.                  


40 Sekunden
As the title  suggests, we are concerned with Product of frames. The first products were studied for Kripke frames by Shehtman and Segeberg in the 70s. They introduced two accessibility relations namely the horizontal and vertical relation, which allow us to move In the first coordinate while the second coordinate is fixed and vice versa. As you can see in the Example, we have given two frames, and in the product we can move in the horizontal line from (x,u) to	(y,u) where u is fixed.
Furthermore,On such products, it is also well known that the interaction axioms commutation and church rosser are valid. Moreover, it is also classical result that the logic of products of S4 frames equipped with horizontal and vertical relation, can be axiomatzied by a notation called fusion of S4 together with the interaction axioms.

1:50 Sekunden
 A natural question arise from such results could be: does that also works for topological frames? 
  The answer is No. The paper "modal logics for products of topologies" by van Benthem, Bezhanishvili,
  ten Cate and Sarenac showed that these interaction axioms can be falsified. They also introduced horizontal and vertical topology where any element U of the horizontal topology has the property that for any point in U we can find such a horizontal line and for vertical a vertical line.
  
 With that, it was proven that the product of S4  frames equipped with horizontal and vertical topology can be axiomatized by S4 fusion S4. In the same paper, they also introduced a third topology which is called the standard topology, which is not only restricted to horizontal and vertical line but also , for example a square or cycle and so on. Product equipped with three topologies is also full product. In that setting, They proved that the full product of S4 spaces can be axiomatized by S4 fusion S4 fusion S4 + \Box p implies \Box_1p \and \Box_2p.
 
  Inspired by that result we looked for a similar result but in the setting of Neighborhood semantics. In fact, We showed that the full neighborhood product of T can be axiomatzied by T fusion T fusion T + boxp implies box1 box2p and box2 box 1p. And the same holds for D.


Definitions---------------------------------------------------------------------------------



43 Sekunden
Before we sketch the result, we introduce some notation by starting with the neighborhood frame.
A neighorhood frame is a tuple with a domain X and a function tau that maps any point of the domain to some set of subsets of X. The subset is also called neighborhood. Furthermore, \tau is a filter neighborhood function, if the neighborhood set is not empty, it is upward closed that means For any neighborhood set the superset must also contain and it is closed under intersection. Why are filters so important?wELL, We want to characaterize normal modal logics and any filtered Frame validates the logic K.

1:15 Minute
At next, we define the full product of frames as follows: We are taking two neighborhood frames with domain X and Y and define on them a horizontal, vertical and standard function. The horizontal function takes as input some x and y and gives us all sets U subsets of X cartesian product Y back, that satisfies the following condition: We fix the second coordinate w	hich is the y and we must find a neighborhood V in x such that the cartesian product of V with y is contained U.

Okay, here an example The blue shapes are basically the U's. We also fix the second coordinate y. In any of these U's we have to find such a horizontal line which is basically the cartesian product of some neighborhood of x here along the dashed lines with y. Analogously, For vertical we have to find a vertical line and standard shapes Like cycle, rectangle and so on 

50 Sekunden
For the last definition, we introduce two ways how we combine two logics. Let's assume two unimodal logics L1, L2. Then the fusion of L1, L2 is defined as the bi modal logic with K2 with two modal operators namely Box1 and Box2 plus the logic L1 where we replace any occurence of Box By Box1 and for L2 any Box by Box2. Furthermore, the full product of logics is defined as the logic of all X full product Y frames s.t. X validates L1 and Y validates L2. 

30 Sekunden

With those definition we can claim our main theorem again. So we assume lambda to be the logic T or D.
Then the full product of these lambdas is lambda fusion lambda fusion lambda plus \box p implies box1 box2p and box2 box 1p.

In the following we will give a sketch for the case T. For D it works similarily. To make the slides more readable, we will also abbreviate the fusions of logic T by T3m.



Bis hier hin sind es 6 Minuten!!!!!!!!!
SKETCH-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1 Minute
The proof steps consists of two steps. First construct an infinite branching and depth Kripke tree with three reflexive relation denoted by T omega omega omega subscript r and m s.t. the logic of the tree is exactly T3m. Second, we construct a neighborhood full product frame namely N_ omega full product N_\omega where the logic of each N omega is T and show that there is a surjective bounded morphism from the full product to the Neighborhood frame version of the tree. Note that for any Kripke frame WE can construct a corresponding neighborhood frame with the same logic. So, The function tau maps Any w to a collection of all supersets of set of worlds that are reachable from w.

1:20
hERE IS the Tree. We can see three relation each of which branches infinitely and has infinite depth. Recall that our logic also contains the interaction axiom  that means any R1 R2 and R2 R1 step must contain in R. Furtheremore we can derive \Boxp implies box1p and box2p from T3m. Hence, any R1 and R2 step must also be in R. By that construction, we can show by standard techniques SUCH as Sahlqvist theorem, Filtration theorem, unraveling and finite model property, the completeness property. This will be skipped here because the interesting part is the surjective bounded morphism in the neighborhood setting.And well, The Idea is to construct a product where the neighborhood sets are somehow strictly decreasing that means there is no smallest neighborhood. So in essential There is no correspondent Kripke frame by our kripke to neighborhood definition. And of course we somehow should be able to find a surjective bounded morphism to neighborhood tree.


8:20

1:56
Okay, Let's see how we define it. We start by defining N omega. Our Base for that neighborhood frame is the  infinitely branching and infinitely depth tree with a single reflxive relation denoted as T omega. On that tree we define a set of pseudo infinite sequences over natural numbers and the symbol star. For every sequence, there must exist some position (N) such that the finite word before (N) contains all the relevant information, while the tail of the sequence contains infinitely many stars. We will come up with an example soon. Now, on that set we can define the base of the neighborhood set by first picking some infinite sequence alpha. Then Uk (alpha) is the set of all infinite sequences beta s.t. forget(alpha) sees forget(beta) in the tree where forget means we deleting all stars and alpha and beta must be the same up to position m where m is the maximum of k or basically the first position N in alpha where anything after N is a star. That is what is meant by st(alpha). Okay lets see how it looks like on an example. 


10:20




1:50
At first, we can see an excerpt of the tree where 1234 and 12344 are in relation. Now we assume alpha to be star star ... 

Then the first position where anything after is a star is 9. Because this is The 9.th position.
Lets consider U_9 (alpha). Then star star 12... is an element of U9 alpha. To see that we have to check two conditions. The first says that Forget(\alpha) sees Forget(beta) which is the case because if we remove all the stars we have 1234 and 12344. And by the second Condition, the word positions up to m must align where m is the maximum of st(alpha) and the k which is 9. So the words are indeed the same up to position 9.


12:10


1:00
This is what we had and to complete the definition N omega is a tuple consists of the pseudo infinite set with function tau that maps each alpha to a set of neighborhoods each of which contains some U_k(alpha) for some k. The first observation is by that definition we get a filter. The second is there is no smallest neighborhood, because lets consider some neighborhoods U_k and U_j where k>j. Then any element contained in U_k must be also in Uj  by the fact that the relation is preserved and if the positions up to k are aligned then they are also aligned up to j because j is smaller. 


1Minute
Now we are ready to sketch the main theorem. We assume the full product of the fresh introduced neighborhood N omega and the neighborhood tree. The numbers 0,1,2 basically denotes which relation we used to get to the node. 0 means we took a R step, 1 a R1 and 2 a R2 step.  The main claim is we can construct a surjective bounded morphism from the full product to the neighborhood tree. Note: the logic of N omega is T can be shown by a similiar construction given soon. And Hence, the logic of the full product of T is a subset of the logic of the full product.

2:30

Okay, here comes the sketch. We will illustrate how g works using an example, since it makes the construction much easier to understand. foR THAT we first let us fix some bijection from N square to N. This is on the domains where g is defined. So here comes the example. Let us pick some elements of the infinite pseudo set say alpha and beta with these values. What we are doing is to compare the elements at position i. essentially there are 4 cases that can occur they are all covered in that example.In Case 1: at position 0, we have the combination where above is a natural number which is 3 and a star  below, then we map it to the natural number occured above in combination with a 1. In this case it is (3,1). In Case 2  we have the combination star is above and natural number below which is 1 here, then we map it to the natural number occured below and 2. Here it is (1,2). Case 3: if there are two natural numbers 2 and 7, then we map it to the Bijection h(2,7) and 0. And for the last case, two stars stay star. At last, we obtain g(alpha,beta) by just removing all stars. That means ...

0:30
That example shows That for any element x of the tree, we can easily constructing alpha and beta s.t. 
g(ALPHA,beta) = x  by just looking the second coordinate, for example if it is a 1, then we know that at that position the element below must be a star or if it is 0, then we need a combination of numbers. So surjectivity is guaranteed.

2:10
In the following we will sketch the other conditions but only for the standard function and sigma and we start with a quick recall:
the standard function tau of x and y gives us all U's where some Uk(x) product Uk(y) is contained and sigma(x) gives the set of all supersets of R(x). Furthermore, For the second condition we have show for any element alpha, beta of the full product and all neighborhoods,  g(U)  is element of sigma. In other words R(g(alpha,beta) is contained in g(U). where R(g(alpha,beta)) are the elements that are reached via R from g(alpha,beta) in T omega omega omega.  and here it suffices to show R(g(alpha,beta) is a subset of g(Uk(alpha) product Uj(beta)) for some k and j, because the second Inclusion is by definition.

Well, is quite similar. Lets look at the last example, we can pick some successor of R(g(alpha,beta)) ending with (h(6,7),0). As argued before, we can construct alpha and beta' by just adding 6 and 7. And still alpha ' belongs to Uk(alpha) and beta' to Uj(beta). Hence the claim follows.


0:35
For the last claim, we essentially pick a superset V that contains R(G(alpha,beta)) and we have to find preimage U s.t. g(U) is a subset of V. Thats basically written here and the claim follows if we show g(Um alpha product Um beta) is a subset of R(g(alpha,beta) for some m that is sufficently large. But the details are here a bit harder to explain and will be omitted here.














	








